Fixing Brightness Control on a Linux Laptop
I own the Samsung X420 ultrabook. A laptop made to be light, portable and with long battery life. And it really is. Overall it's a good laptop considering its 1.3 GHz Core 2 Duo processor with 
@@@
I own the [Samsung X420](http://www.samsung.com/br/consumer/it-products/notebooks-netbooks/ultra-portable/NP-X420-JA01BR "Samguns X420") ultrabook. A laptop made to be light, portable and with long battery life. And it really is. Overall it's a good laptop considering its low-power 1.3 GHz Core 2 Duo processor.

The default hotkeys on this laptop for brightness control are fn (function) + up arrow or down arrow. Right after installing Linux Mint 12 Debian Edition I tried to adjust the brightness and nothing. The problem is the same for all the distributions I tested: Ubuntu 11.10, Ubuntu 12.04 and Fedora 16. When pressing fn + up arrow the brightness icon appeared on screen but nothing happened, and when pressing fn + down arrow the brightness was set to the maximum and the icon showed it was a little below the maximum, which was strange.

Searching the net I found the solution to the problem, and it seems to be common among laptops with the **Intel GS45 + ICH9MS** chipset, so if your laptop has this chipset or if you're having the same problem, try the fix below:

The fix consists of adding a Linux Kernel configuration parameter at boot. To test it, press "e" on the Linux boot screen to edit the boot commands and insert **acpi\_osi=** at the end of the "linux /boot/…" line. On my computer it looked like this (line 9):

[[CODE]]

According to what I read, the Linux kernel by default identifies itself as some version of Windows to the BIOS, and the problem is that some BIOSes have code branches to work around Windows Vista bugs, which ends up affecting Linux.

Another alternative is to use the parameter below if your BIOS supports Linux:

**acpi\_osi=”Linux”**

Or use the following parameter to make Linux identify itself as Windows Vista and run compatibility commands with it:

**acpi\_osi=”Windows 2006″  
**

To use the parameter permanently

As mentioned above, to test the parameter you can press "e" in the Grub2 boot menu and insert the parameter, but that will only work until the next boot. To make the parameter permanent you need to edit a grub configuration file as follows:

[[CODE]]

The nano editor will open the file and its content will look something like this:

[[CODE]]

Add the parameter to the GRUB\_CMDLINE\_LINUX\_DEFAULT line as shown below:

[[CODE]]

If you need to use parameters that contain quotes ("), you need to escape the quotes as shown below:

[[CODE]]

Save the file and enter the following command to update the grub settings:

[[CODE]]

That’s all folks!
